when someone says I know X and X is any
claim at all what they're not actually
saying is I am certain that X is the
case or even I am justified in believing
that X no what they actually mean is the
best idea I have at the moment is X and
I've got no good criticism of X when
people say they know X they're not
saying they can't actually change their
mind yes of course some people are
dogmatist and claimed not to doubt X
when X is either something really
obvious or something that's really
important to them but they're thinking
these things does not change the true
structure of knowledge or that they are
in fact like all of us fallible humans
people are always fallible were prone to
error we should know that even if they
claim to have no doubts
we should doubt that very claim or
better yet understand that if they
thought better about these things than
they would like us understand that
although knowledge is genuinely possible
the feeling that one is certain is no
guarantee at all that one is in
possession of the final ultimate truth
that final ultimate truth is something
we aim for but it's not something we can
ever know to have obtained the justified
true belief mistake which was handed
down to us from Plato remains deeply
ingrained in our language and our ways
of thinking about knowledge but it's
just that it's a mistake knowledge isn't
anything to do with being justified true
which is to say in some way finally
shown not to be possibly false and nor
is it about the beliefs of people what's
said to be going on solely in conscious
Minds instead
knowledge is very much a real thing out
there and it's not just imagined it's
abstract and it's instantiated in
physical objects in other words physical
structures are arranged in particular
ways in order to code the knowledge so
for example brains encode knowledge but
so do our computers and telescopes all
those structures encode causal
relationships between objects so that
something useful can be done with the
information
popper understood that knowledge is real
and possible but many people think he
rejected knowledge because they think
his entire philosophy is about
falsification ISM so they think the
published philosophy says something like
you can be sure about those things you
have falsified but not about anything
else or something like that but that's
why to the mark completely probably did
not think you could be sure as in
certain or absolutely 100% without a
doubt for all time satisfied that
anything was true Awful's now we didn't
believe in confidence levels at all
everything we know is always conjectural
which is to say tentative or provisional
it contains truth but it's not the final
truth knowledge claims are explanations
about what is true falsification or
refutation more broadly rules out some
explanations theories ideas hypotheses
has been good explanations now David
Deutsch sharpened up this idea even more
an experimental refutation makes a
theory almost impossible to vary in such
a way as to account for the refutation
we know something when we have an
explanation when we've found an answer
to a problem we have obtained knowledge
when we've discovered something that
allows us to move forward none of this
means we need be justified or certain or
believed that what we're doing is the
truth knowledge is just useful
information useful because it solves a
problem and it solves a problem because
it accounts for how it does that is to
say it's a good explanation